Notes:
Introduction to algorithms

A computationl problem can be solved in many ways, but finding
the best algorithm to solve a problem can be challenging.

Application domain:
1. DNA analysis
2. Search engines
3. Navigation

Computational problem:
1. Given two DNA sequences from different individuals, what is the longest shared sequence of nucleotides?
2. Given a product ID and a sorted array of all in-stock products, is the product in stock and what is the product's price?
3. Given a user's current location and desired location, what is the fastest route to walk to the destination?

Common algorithm:
1. Longest common substring: The longest common substring algorithm determines the longest common substring that exists in two inputs strings. DNA sequences can be represented using strings consisting of the letters A, C, G, and T to represent the four different nucleotides
2. Binary search: The binary search algorithm is an efficient algorithm for searching a list. The list's elements must be sorted and directly accessible (such as an array).
3. Dijkstra's shortest path: Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm determines the shortest path from a start vertex to each vertex in a graph. The possible routes between two locations can be represented using a graph, where vertices represent specific locations and connecting edges specify the time required to walk between those two locations.

Data Structures: 
Record: stores subitems, often called fields, with a name associated with each subitem.
Array: stores an ordered list of items, where each item is directly accessible by a positional index.
Linked list: stores an ordered list of items in nodes, where each node stores data and has a pointer to the next node.
Binary tree: which each node stores data and has up to two children, known as a left child and a right child.
Hash table: stores unordered items by mapping (or hashing) each item to a location in an array.
Graph: representing connections among items, and consists of vertices connected by edges. A vertex represents an item in a graph. An edge represents a connection between two vertices in a graph.

Abstract Data Type: 
1. List --> Array, Linked list
2. Stack --> Linked list
3. Queue --> Linked list
4. Deque --> Linked list
5. Bag --> Array, Linked list
6. Set  --> Binary search tree, hash table
7. Priority queue --> Heap
8. Dictionary --> Hash table, binary search tree

